I mean the Church of Satan was sort of
more abundant at that point um there
there had been a couple of schisms in
the 70s and and that left uh my father
really in a deep state of very dark
depression really malignant black black
dark depression and um agoraphobia and
he had locked him he just sequestered
himself into his home and would only go
to very select safe places in public but
not he was not doing any any interviews
anymore and he did not want to
confront these allegations he his
attitude was he'll just wait till it
blows over but you know it not just me
but everybody thought well this isn't
anything this is pretty extreme this
isn't going to blow over in a week or so
this is this is snowballing and
continuing and to get bigger and bigger
so
um so I had to I had to uh kind of
parachute I had to parachute into the
role of par you know paratroop into the
role of high priestess and I had to
figure it out on my own as I went along
and then that's when I as I said I
started having realizations of like well
what does it mean to be a religion and
what is religion and I started doing a
lot of my own uh self- research and and
um looking into certain things but but
aside from that experience was beginning
to open my eyes to certain things and
what had happened was because my mother
left my
father you know I got to back up because
you said well it was too my mother and
father's advantage to have me doing this
but no not exactly it was to my father's
advantage to have me doing this my
mother having left she was trying to
pull me out of doing that and she was
convincing me she every time I would
talk to her she was hanging me about
don't care about anybody else you
shouldn't be doing this and you know and
like I need your support and if you're
doing this for him then how can I expect
you to be supporting me during this
divorce you know thing and so it was
very uh stressful for me being pulled at
all sides and she was actually telling
me don't care about anyone because I was
beginning to develop what in Buddhism is
called bouti which is a few feeling of
um a realization that compassion
compassion can't be just for a select
few special people compassion actually
broadens and it actually uh you begin to
to develop and attain a certain level it
was it was just like the beginning
stages when I began cognizing that hey
something is really seriously wrong here
because there's innocent people out
there that are not even satanists that
have never even heard of such a thing
they haven't even heard of such a thing
called Satanism and yet you know their
neighbors are calling them into the FBI
and the police and stuff and it's just
ruining people's lives was that part of
That Daycare Witch Hunt the the satanic
death
ritual the MCM Martin preschool case was
up to that point the hugest waste of
time and money in in US history devoted
to did you Silence by any chance do you
know that book Satan silence no oh well
it was written by a lawyer and a social
worker and it's the best account that
I've ever read by a large margin of the
satanic daycare panic in the 1980s it's
an amazing book Satan's silence yeah
okay so you are T okay so I get the
picture more thoroughly because that was
an unbelievably Widespread Panic right
and it lasted for quite a while and so
and you were trying to okay so let me
ask you a question about that now you
know the dark side of this potentially
is that if you're called upon to be a
spokesperson in a time like that there's
also a lot of attention drawn to you and
you know you pointed out that your
mother was certainly willing to play the
role of martyr to seek attention and to
seek respect and you know you said that
you were a pretty dutiful person and
that you had a job and that this role of
spokesperson was dropped on you and that
you paid an emotional price because you
were torn between your parents but on
retrospect and retrospect you've
obviously done a lot of thinking about
that do you believe that there was any
contamination of your motivation by a
desire for public attention or anything
like that because you had the spotlight
put on you that could be easy to
perceive but the simple answer is
everything was happening so fast I
didn't have time to even think
about as as everything took off I didn't
have time to even think about and and
and in fact even the few times I did
think oh well maybe this can maybe this
could be turned into an advantage I very
quickly learned that no in fact it's not
an advantage because I had had seven
years of theater training for example
acting and and I wanted to go into the
Arts I just wanted to have a career in
the Arts some way and I wasn't sure in
which field I hadn't decided yet but as
a single mother the only the only uh
vocation the only the only branch of the
Arts that I could afford to pay for
myself with my solitary nobody was
helping me I had no uh financial support
from my family or certainly not from the
father of my son uh note it was all to
me was the only thing I could do was
take um drama drama courses and coaching
and for example City College had free
tuition in those days so I had to kind
of piece together an education and yeah
I mean some of my friends at that time
that were in my acting classes they said
well maybe you can use it to your
advantage and uh but the problem the
problem was it became super clear to me
immediately that no this is done it's
finished I I can't because because of
the religiously motivated uh
hysteria that was happening then if I
went to uh for example I had some
friends that would set up um auditions
for me who knew who knew the casting
agents and so so they
knew you know of course in America
you're not allowed to to state your
reason why you're discriminating against
someone but but because I because
through either um acting coach or or
friends who knew casting agents or
something so I'd go on an interview but
but the but the gassing person will say
we're not going to give any money to the
Satanist are you crazy and we can't be
Associated we can't be associated with
this it was like
um uh you know being an Untouchable and
then that got worse it was not only it
was not only
um the professionally that that I
realized okay now I am too branded I am
so I am so much of an identity and I am
known too much I'm too branded I can
never just play a role that's never
going to happen I can't be like a
versatile actress that can play a cow
cowgirl one year or not that I want but
I'm just saying hypothetically that you
know I I couldn't play a role of like a
baseball mom or something like that it's
just not going to happen
because because W would spread first of
all my name my name because not at that
time not many people had that last name
Le and then it that would um ring alarm
ring alarm Bells um and then then just
physically I was physically known and
branded that way now the now the Paradox
is Paradox is there were people the
Church of Satan actually began to to the
membership began to grow because of my
being out there so it created a new
upsurge in membership um and my father
realizing this this is kind of a funny
detail my father realizing that I was
actually generating more income for him
and more membership um I remember he
told me once that because I was doing
such a good job presenting him and that
there were new members coming in that he
was going to uh that he would actually
pay me uh I think 25% of all new
memberships that come through that
actually mention that they've seen me
and wrote to to join so so what's funny
is he did that for the first three three
memberships so I got like at that time I
got
$75 because at that time memberships
were 100 $ and so I got
$25 for three and then it never happened
again never happened again oh yeah so
that was one of those pieces of
information yeah yeah it was a gesture
that was to dangle the carrot and make
me think oh well maybe you know but then
you know that dropped out and not that I
was doing it for the money but I thought
for the first time in my life I thought
oh my father's actually doing something
for me to help me and and he's actually
acknowledging in my contribution to what
I'm doing for his organization but it
didn't last it didn't last um and then
that was that and you asked me something
else about um well I so so here I want
to clarify yeah because of the new
upsurge of
membership here again um my father would
cherry-pick the people that he felt like
well these people are in a category of
movers and shakers you know they're
they're kind of like in the new Punk
scene and you know he was an old for at
that point so he thought well this will
you know maybe they'll boost my ratings
with the you know with the cool kids or
and so um so there was there was a new
upsurge in what and in the membership of
what he would call the Rubes but then
there was also a new upsurge in what he
cherry-picked as his little Inner Circle
and that that was of these new kind of
uh you know hipster kind of
edgy um Punky or whatever you know just
just um I wouldn't even know how to
describe them by today's standards but
but the interesting thing is they they
always claim well well she just didn't
know how to use it to her advantage and
what they mean by that what do you know
what they mean by that no please please
elucidate what they mean by that is I
just wasn't mailan enough I just wasn't
mercenary enough
been more I yeah I should have been more
blackhearted I should have been just
more misanthropic I should have just
been more just plow over everybody and
and just create my own create my own
well you had the opportunity there to do
that apparently you know because you
were driving membership you could have
you could have definitely capitalized on
that not only did I have the opportunity
to do that I realized the power in that
but I was as I said everything was
happening so fast I was so swept up in
in it was just extremely it was an
extremely chaotic time in my life and
for for the country that was
experiencing that that particular
satanic Panic phenomenon however then
fast forward many many years later like
about 15 or 20 I can't remember when
this happened but well after I became a
Buddhist um and I was meditating and in
Buddhism they call the well they really
the meditation session itself itself is
the meditation session but anything
outside of the designated meditation
session is referred to post-meditation
postm meditation can be any time in your
ordinary daily routine but in this case
what I'm going to refer to is the
immediate postm meditation because very
often in the immediate postm meditation
phase is where things come to you where
realization comes to you where little
Sparks of I'm not going to say
Enlightenment because Enlightenment is a
big thing but the but like you could say
are little steps in the path to
realization and
understanding and knowing so so the
realization that I
had was true
power is knowing what you're capable
of knowing how dangerous you could
be and refraining
[Music]